This example implements a client, that observes events generated by a gRPC server. 
* The server is implemented in `dart`
* The client is a `flutter` application

The structure of this directory is as follows:
```bash
.
├── client
├── events
├── proto
└── server
```
# proto
The protobuf messages and services are defined in this directory. 
The code can be created with the shell script [`generate-proto.sh`](https://github.com/Vardaleb/grpc-demos/blob/main/event-observer/generate-proto.sh), which puts the genereated files in the library project `events`
This way, we do not have to duplicate the `dart` classes for the server and the client. There is only one service defined in the file [`event.proto`](https://github.com/Vardaleb/grpc-demos/blob/main/event-observer/proto/event.proto):
```proto
service EventService {
  rpc Observe(google.protobuf.Empty) returns (stream Event);
}
```
# events
The `dart` package contains all the generated classes from the `proto` directory. It exports them in the [`all.dart`](https://github.com/Vardaleb/grpc-demos/blob/main/event-observer/events/lib/all.dart). Unfortunatly, the protobuf compiler for dart creates source code, that contains a warning. Therefore, this warning is disabled in the [`analysis_options.yaml`](https://github.com/Vardaleb/grpc-demos/blob/main/event-observer/events/analysis_options.yaml):
```yaml
linter:
  rules:
    implementation_imports: false
```
# server
The gRPC server implements the service method `Observe` in [`bin/dart.dart`](https://github.com/Vardaleb/grpc-demos/blob/main/event-observer/server/dart/bin/dart.dart), by endlessly yielding an event every second. Its basically a clock ;-)
```dart
// send new time event
var dateTime = DateTime.now();
yield Event(
    time: Timestamp.fromDateTime(dateTime),
    offsetSeconds: dateTime.timeZoneOffset.inSeconds,
    timezoneName: dateTime.timeZoneName);
```
Since the protobuf `Timestamp` provides times in UTC, the event message also contains information about the timezone, the time has been recorded.

The server can be started in a specific timezone like this (e.g. in New York timezone):
```bash
$> TZ=America/New_York dart run
```
In a real world application, the server would yield messages, based on some events in the application. It also would offer some clean way to be terminated. In this example it runs, until the application is killed.
# client
The client has a class [`EventService`](https://github.com/Vardaleb/grpc-demos/blob/main/event-observer/client/lib/src/event_service.dart), that encapsulates everything related to the gRPC client and is implemented as a singleton. In the method `_init` it connects to the gRPC server and creates the gRPC client stub `EventServiceClient`.

Finally, the method `observe` returns the `ResponseStream<Event>`, which we will later use in a `StreamBuilder` widget:
```dart
ResponseStream<Event> observe() {
    return stub.observe(Empty.getDefault());
}
```
## Homepage widget
The state of the `home` widget of the `MaterialApp` in [`main.dart`](https://github.com/Vardaleb/grpc-demos/blob/main/event-observer/client/lib/main.dart) has a member for the stream, that is returned by `EventService.observe()`. It is created in the method `initState`:
```dart
class EventObserverClientHomePage extends StatefulWidget {
  // [...]
  late Stream<Event> stream;

  @override
  void initState() {
    // [...]
    stream = EventService.instance.observe();
  }
```

The main widget in `body` is a [`StreamBuilder`](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/StreamBuilder-class.html) widget. For the `stream` property it takes the stream member, we have created in `initState`. The `builder` property is a function, that is called, every time a new event is read from the stream (or if something happens to the stream). The `snapshot` parameter is annotated with the correct type, so we can access the data in a much cleaner way:
```dart
// [...]
child: StreamBuilder(
    stream: stream,
    builder: (context, AsyncSnapshot<Event> snapshot) {
      // [...]
      var event = snapshot.data!;
      return ResultTable(event: event); 
    }
```
Finally, the [`ResultTable`](https://github.com/Vardaleb/grpc-demos/blob/main/event-observer/client/lib/src/ui/result_table.dart) widget is responsible for displaying the event.